= harvest

A ruby library wrapping (most of) the Harvest Api.

== DESCRIPTION:

This library uses ActiveResource and activeresource_throttle to provide simple, reliable access to the Harvest Api.  Good for building reporting scripts and simple apps.

Note that this library does not support the complete Harvest Api at this time. See Features/Issues below for details.

== USAGE:

=== Creating a new harvest object:

All calls to the Harvest API will originate from a Harvest object. Initialize it like so:

  @harvest = Harvest(:email      => "joe@example.com", 
                     :password   => "secret", 
                     :sub_domain => "joeandcompany",
                     :headers    => {"User-Agent" => "MyCompany"})
                     
The _headers_ argument is optional.
                       
=== Clients

Index
  @harvest.clients.find(:all)
Show
  @harvest.clients.find(43235)
Create
  @client = @harvest.clients.new
  @client.attributes = {:name => "Company, LLC", :details => "New York, NY"}
  @client.save
Update
  @client.first_name = "Smith"
  @client.save
Destroy
  @client.destroy

Toggle (Active/Inactive)
  @client.toggle
  
=== Tasks

Index
  @harvest.tasks.find(:all)
Show
  @harvest.tasks.find(123)
Create
  @task = @harvest.tasks.new
  @task.attributes = {:name => "Meeting",   :billable_by_default => false,
                      :is_default => false, :default_hourly_rate => 100}
  @task.save
Update
  @task.name = "Client Meeting"
  @task.save
Destroy
  @task.destroy
  
=== People

Index
  @harvest.people.find(:all)
Show
  @harvest.people.find(123)
  
=== Projects

Index
  @harvest.projects.find(:all)
Show
  @harvest.projects.find(123)
Create
  @project = @harvest.projects.new
  @project.attributes = {:name => "Refactor", :active => true, 
                         :bill_by => "None", :client_id => @client.id, }
  @project.save
Update
  @project.name = "Mega-Refactor"
  @project.save
Destroy
  @project.destroy

Toggle (Active/Inactive)
  @project.toggle
    
==== User and Task Assignments

  @project.users.find(:all)
  @project.users.find(:first)
  
  @project.tasks.find(:all)
  @project.tasks.find(:first)
  
=== Reports

  @project.entries(:from => Time.now, :to => Time.now)
  @project.entries(:from => Time.now, :to => Time.now, :user_id => @person.id)
  
  @person.entries(:from => Time.now, :to => Time.now)
  @person.expenses(:from => Time.now, :to => Time.now)
  
== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

Supports most of the Harvest Api (http://www.getharvest.com/api) as of 12/2008.

Though RESTful, the Harvest Api does not entirely follow ActiveResource conventions. In order to support the complete API, certain customizations will be required. <b>We welcome any contributions/modifications to help complete this Api.</b>

The following Api features are incomplete due to incompatibilities with ActiveResource conventions (CRUD actions in parentheses):

1. People (CUD)
2. User & Task Assignments (CUD)
3. Expenses (CUD)

In addition, the following have not been implemented at all due to time constraints:

1. Time Tracking Api
2. Invoices, Invoice Payments, Invoice Categories, and Invoice Messages 

Expect a more complete library in the near future. Again, contributions are welcome.

== TEST SUITE

This library includes a fairly thorough set of unit and integration tests. The unit tests can be run with the "rake" command.

The integration tests require a Harvest account. It is best to use a trial account when running these tests.

The credentials may be entered in test/test_helper.rb. To run the integration suite:

  rake test:integration
  
Note that the integration test structure is somewhat unorthodox, as it requires tests to run in a particular order. The main test file is test/integration/harvest_integration_test.rb. Examine this to see how the integration suite works.
  
== REQUIREMENTS:

Requires active_resource >= 2.1 and activeresource_throttle >= 1.0.

active_resource_throttle should install automaticallt, but just in case you need to install manually:

  gem sources -a http://gems.github.com
  sudo gem install aiaio-active_resource_throttle 

== INSTALL:
  
  gem sources -a http://gems.github.com
  gem install aiaio-harvest